# Libercoin - Build, Configuration, and Running

*Read this in other languages: [Español](build_ES.md).*

## Supported Platforms

Longer term, most platforms will likely be supported to some extent.
Libercoin's programming language `rust` has build targets for most platforms.

What's working so far?

* Linux x86\_64 and macOS [libercoin + mining + development]
* Not Windows 10 yet [libercoin kind-of builds. No mining yet. Help wanted!]

## Requirements

* rust 1.31+ (use [rustup]((https://www.rustup.rs/))- i.e. `curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh; source $HOME/.cargo/env`)
  * if rust is already installed, you can simply update version with `rustup update`
* clang
* ncurses and libs (ncurses, ncursesw5)
* zlib libs (zlib1g-dev or zlib-devel)
* pkg-config
* libssl-dev
* linux-headers (reported needed on Alpine linux)
* llvm

For Debian-based distributions (Debian, Ubuntu, Mint, etc), all in one line (except Rust):

```sh
apt install build-essential cmake git libgit2-dev clang libncurses5-dev libncursesw5-dev zlib1g-dev pkg-config libssl-dev llvm
```

For Mac:

```sh
xcode-select --install
brew install --with-toolchain llvm
brew install pkg-config
brew install openssl
```

## Build steps

```sh
git clone https://github.com/mimblewimble/libercoin.git
cd libercoin
cargo build --release
```

Libercoin can also be built in debug mode (without the `--release` flag, but using the `--debug` or the `--verbose` flag) but this will render fast sync prohibitively slow due to the large overhead of cryptographic operations.

## Build errors

See [Troubleshooting](https://github.com/mimblewimble/docs/wiki/Troubleshooting)

## What was built?

A successful build gets you:

* `target/release/libercoin` - the main libercoin binary

All data, configuration and log files created and used by libercoin are located in the hidden
`~/.libercoin` directory (under your user home directory) by default. You can modify all configuration
values by editing the file `~/.libercoin/main/libercoin-server.toml`.

It is also possible to have libercoin create its data files in the current directory. To do this, run

```sh
libercoin server config
```

Which will generate a `libercoin-server.toml` file in the current directory, pre-configured to use
the current directory for all of its data. Running libercoin from a directory that contains a
`libercoin-server.toml` file will use the values in that file instead of the default
`~/.libercoin/main/libercoin-server.toml`.

While testing, put the libercoin binary on your path like this:

```sh
export PATH=`pwd`/target/release:$PATH
```

assuming you are running from the root directory of your Libercoin installation.

You can then run `libercoin` directly (try `libercoin help` for more options).

## Configuration

Libercoin attempts to run with sensible defaults, and can be further configured via
the `libercoin-server.toml` file. This file is generated by libercoin on its first run, and
contains documentation on each available option.

While it's recommended that you perform all libercoin server configuration via
`libercoin-server.toml`, it's also possible to supply command line switches to libercoin that
override any settings in the file.

For help on libercoin commands and their switches, try:

```sh
libercoin help
libercoin wallet help
libercoin client help
```

## Docker

```sh
docker build -t libercoin -f etc/Dockerfile .
```
For floonet, use `etc/Dockerfile.floonet` instead

You can bind-mount your libercoin cache to run inside the container.

```sh
docker run -it -d -v $HOME/.libercoin:/root/.libercoin libercoin
```
If you prefer to use a docker named volume, you can pass `-v dotlibercoin:/root/.libercoin` instead.
Using a named volume copies default configurations upon volume creation

## Cross-platform builds

Rust (cargo) can build libercoin for many platforms, so in theory running `libercoin`
as a validating node on your low powered device might be possible.
To cross-compile `libercoin` on a x86 Linux platform and produce ARM binaries,
say, for a Raspberry Pi.

## Using libercoin

The wiki page [Wallet User Guide](https://github.com/mimblewimble/docs/wiki/Wallet-User-Guide)
and linked pages have more information on what features we have,
troubleshooting, etc.

## Mining in Libercoin

Please note that all mining functions for Libercoin have moved into a separate, standalone package called
[libercoin-miner](https://github.com/mimblewimble/libercoin-miner). Once your Libercoin code node is up and running,
you can start mining by building and running libercoin-miner against your running Libercoin node.

For libercoin-miner to be able to communicate with your libercoin node, make sure that you have `enable_stratum_server = true`
in your `libercoin-server.toml` configuration file and you have a wallet listener running (`libercoin wallet listen`). 
